1-asp-net-core-api-idtokenhint/README.md, before:

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- dotnet
- powershell
products:
- active-directory
- verifiable credentials
description: "A code sample demonstrating issuance and verification of verifiable credentials."
urlFragment: "active-directory-verifiable-credentials-dotnet"
---
# Verifiable Credentials Code Sample

This code sample demonstrates how to use Microsoft's Azure Active Directory Verifiable Credentials preview to issue and consume verifiable credentials. 

## About this sample

Welcome to Microsoft Entra Verified ID. In this sample, we'll teach you to issue your first verifiable credential: a Verified Credential Expert Card. You'll then use this card to prove to a verifier that you are a Verified Credential Expert, mastered in the art of digital credentialing. The sample uses the preview REST API which supports ID Token hints to pass a payload for the verifiable credential.

## Contents

The project is divided in 2 parts, one for issuance and one for verifying a verifiable credential. Depending on the scenario you need you can remove 1 part. To verify if your environment is completely working you can use both parts to issue a verifiedcredentialexpert VC and verify that as well.


| Issuance | |
|------|--------|
| Pages/Issuer.cshtml|The basic webpage containing the javascript to call the APIs for issuance. |
| IssuerController.cs | This is the controller which contains the API called from the webpage. It calls the REST API after getting an access token through MSAL. |
| issuance_request_config.json | The sample payload send to the server to start issuing a vc. |

| Verification | |
|------|--------|
| Pages/Verifier.cshtml | The website acting as the verifier of the verifiable credential.
| VerifierController.cs | This is the controller which contains the API called from the webpage. It calls the REST API after getting an access token through MSAL and helps verifying the presented verifiable credential.
| presentation_request_config.json | The sample payload send to the server to start issuing a vc.

## Setup

Before you can run this sample make sure your environment is setup correctly, follow the instructions in the documentation [here](https://aka.ms/didfordevs).

### Create application registration
Run the [Configure.PS1](./AppCreationScripts/AppCreationScripts.md) powershell script in the AppCreationScripts directory or follow these manual steps to create an application registrations, give the application the correct permissions so it can access the Verifiable Credentials Request REST API:

Register an application in Azure Active Directory: 
1. Sign in to the Azure portal using either a work or school account or a personal Microsoft account.
2. Navigate to the Microsoft identity platform for developers App registrations page.
3.	Select New registration
    -  In the Name section, enter a meaningful application name for your issuance and/or verification application
    - In the supported account types section, select Accounts in this organizational directory only ({tenant name})
    - Select Register to create the application
4.	On the app overview page, find the Application (client) ID value and Directory (tenant) ID and record it for later.
5.	From the Certificates & secrets page, in the Client secrets section, choose New client secret:
    - Type a key description (for instance app secret)
    - Select a key duration.
    - When you press the Add button, the key value will be displayed, copy and save the value in a safe location.
    - You’ll need this key later to configure the sample application. This key value will not be displayed again, nor retrievable by any other means, so record it as soon as it is visible from the Azure portal.
6.	In the list of pages for the app, select API permissions
    - Click the Add a permission button
    - Search for APIs in my organization for 3db474b9-6a0c-4840-96ac-1fceb342124f or Verifiable Credential and click the “Verifiable Credential Request Service”
    - Click the “Application Permission” and expand “VerifiableCredential.Create.All”
    - Click Grant admin consent for {tenant name} on top of the API/Permission list and click YES. This allows the application to get the correct permissions
![Admin concent](ReadmeFiles/AdminConcent.PNG)

## Setting up and running the sample
To run the sample, clone the repository, compile & run it. It's callback endpoint must be publically reachable, and for that reason, use a tool like  `ngrok` as a reverse proxy to reach your app.

```Powershell
git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-verifiable-credentials-dotnet.git
cd active-directory-verifiable-credentials-dotnet/1-asp-net-core-api-idtokenhint
```

### Create your credential
To use the sample we need a configured Verifiable Credential in the azure portal.
In the project directory CredentialFiles you will find the `VerifiedCredentialExpertDisplayDefinition.json` file and the `VerifiedCredentialExpertRulesDefinition.json` file. Use these 2 files to create your own VerifiedCredentialExpert credential. 

You can find the instructions on how to create a Verifiable Credential in the azure portal [here](https://aka.ms/didfordevs)

Make sure you copy the value of the credential URL after you created the credential in the portal. 
Copy the URL in the `CredentialManifest` part of the `appsettings.json`. 
You need to manually copy your Microsoft AAD Verifiable Credential service created Decentralized Identifier (did:..) value from this page as well and paste that in the appsettings.json file for `IssuerAuthority`.

### API Payloads
The API is called with special payloads for issuing and verifying verifiable credentials. The sample payload files are modified by the sample code by copying the correct values from the `appsettings.json` file.
If you want to modify the payloads `issuance_request_config.json` and `presentation_request_config.json` files yourself, make sure you comment out the code overwriting the values in the VerifierController.cs and IssuerController.cs files. The code overwrites the Authority, Manifest and trustedIssuers values. The callback URI is modified in code to match your hostname.

For issuance you don't need to change anything, for verifying make sure you follow the instructions from the quickstart and copy paste the correct payload to the `presentation_request_config.json`

Make sure you copy the `ClientId`, `ClientSecret` and `TenantTd` you copied when creating the app registration to the `appsettings.json` as well.

## Running the sample

1. Open a command prompt and run the following command:
```Powershell
dotnet build "AspNetCoreVerifiableCredentials.csproj" -c Debug -o .\bin\Debug\net5
dotnet run
```

2. Using a different command prompt, run ngrok to set up a URL on 5000. You can install ngrok globally by using the [ngrok npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngrok/).
```Powershell
ngrok http 5000
```
3. Open the HTTPS URL generated by ngrok.
![API Overview](ReadmeFiles/ngrok-url-screen.png)
The sample dynamically copies the hostname to be part of the callback URL, this way the VC Request service can reach your sample web application to execute the callback method.

1. Select GET CREDENTIAL
1. In Authenticator, scan the QR code. 
> If this is the first time you are using Verifiable Credentials the Credentials page with the Scan QR button is hidden. You can use the `add account` button. Select `other` and scan the QR code, this will enable the preview of Verifiable Credentials in Authenticator.
6. If you see the 'This app or website may be risky screen', select **Advanced**.
1. On the next **This app or website may be risky** screen, select **Proceed anyways (unsafe)**.
1. On the Add a credential screen, notice that:

  - At the top of the screen, you can see a red **Not verified** message.
  - The credential is based on the information you uploaded as the display file.

9. Select **Add**.

## Verify the verifiable credential by using the sample app
1. Navigate back and click on the Verify Credential link
2. Click Verify Credential button
3. Scan the QR code
4. select the VerifiedCredentialExpert credential and click allow
5. You should see the result presented on the screen.



## About the code
Since the API is a multi-tenant API it needs to receive an access token when it's called. 
The endpoint of the API is https://verifiedid.did.msidentity.com/v1.0/verifiableCredentials/createIssuanceRequest and https://verifiedid.did.msidentity.com/v1.0/verifiableCredentials/createPresentationRequest 

To get an access token we are using MSAL as library. MSAL supports the creation and caching of access token which are used when calling Azure Active Directory protected resources like the verifiable credential request API.
Typicall calling the libary looks something like this:
```C#
app = ConfidentialClientApplicationBuilder.Create(AppSettings.ClientId)
    .WithClientSecret(AppSettings.ClientSecret)
    .WithAuthority(new Uri(AppSettings.Authority))
    .Build();
```
And creating an access token:
```C#
result = await app.AcquireTokenForClient(scopes)
                  .ExecuteAsync();
```
> **Important**: At this moment the scope needs to be: **3db474b9-6a0c-4840-96ac-1fceb342124f/.default** This might change in the future

Calling the API looks like this:
```C#
HttpClient client = new HttpClient();
var defaultRequestHeaders = client.DefaultRequestHeaders;
defaultRequestHeaders.Authorization = new AuthenticationHeaderValue("Bearer", result.AccessToken);

HttpResponseMessage res = await client.PostAsync(AppSettings.ApiEndpoint, new StringContent(jsonString, Encoding.UTF8, "application/json"));
response = await res.Content.ReadAsStringAsync();
```

## Troubleshooting

### Did you forget to provide admin consent? This is needed for confidential apps.
If you get an error when calling the API `Insufficient privileges to complete the operation.`, this is because the tenant administrator has not granted permissions
to the application. See step 6 of 'Register the client app' above.

You will typically see, on the output window, something like the following:

```Json
Failed to call the Web Api: Forbidden
Content: {
  "error": {
    "code": "Authorization_RequestDenied",
    "message": "Insufficient privileges to complete the operation.",
    "innerError": {
      "request-id": "<a guid>",
      "date": "<date>"
    }
  }
}
```


## Best practices
When deploying applications which need client credentials and use secrets or certificates the more secure practice is to use certificates. If you are hosting your application on azure make sure you check how to deploy managed identities. This takes away the management and risks of secrets in your application.
You can find more information here:
- [Integrate a daemon app with Key Vault and MSI](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-dotnetcore-daemon-v2/tree/master/3-Using-KeyVault)


## More information

For more information, see MSAL.NET's conceptual documentation:

- [Quickstart: Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app)
- [Quickstart: Configure a client application to access web APIs](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-configure-app-access-web-apis)
- [Acquiring a token for an application with client credential flows](https://aka.ms/msal-net-client-credentials)

Commit message:

update to runable nervcity version before GA.

1-asp-net-core-api-idtokenhint/README.md, after:

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- dotnet
- powershell
products:
- active-directory
- verifiable credentials
description: "A code sample demonstrating issuance and verification of verifiable credentials."
urlFragment: "active-directory-verifiable-credentials-dotnet"
---
# Verifiable Credentials Code Sample

This code sample demonstrates how to use Microsoft's Azure Active Directory Verifiable Credentials preview to issue and consume verifiable credentials. 

## About this sample

Welcome to Microsoft Entra Verified ID. In this sample, we'll teach you to issue your first verifiable credential: a Verified Credential Expert Card. You'll then use this card to prove to a verifier that you are a Verified Credential Expert, mastered in the art of digital credentialing. The sample uses the preview REST API which supports ID Token hints to pass a payload for the verifiable credential.

> **Important**: Microsoft Entra Verified ID is currently in public preview. This preview version is provided without a service level agreement, and it's not recommended for production workloads. Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities. For more information, see [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/).

## Contents

The project is divided in 2 parts, one for issuance and one for verifying a verifiable credential. Depending on the scenario you need you can remove 1 part. To verify if your environment is completely working you can use both parts to issue a verifiedcredentialexpert VC and verify that as well.


| Issuance | |
|------|--------|
| Pages/Issuer.cshtml|The basic webpage containing the javascript to call the APIs for issuance. |
| IssuerController.cs | This is the controller which contains the API called from the webpage. It calls the REST API after getting an access token through MSAL. |
| issuance_request_config.json | The sample payload send to the server to start issuing a vc. |

| Verification | |
|------|--------|
| Pages/Verifier.cshtml | The website acting as the verifier of the verifiable credential.
| VerifierController.cs | This is the controller which contains the API called from the webpage. It calls the REST API after getting an access token through MSAL and helps verifying the presented verifiable credential.
| presentation_request_config.json | The sample payload send to the server to start issuing a vc.

## Setup

Before you can run this sample make sure your environment is setup correctly, follow the instructions in the documentation [here](https://aka.ms/didfordevs).

### Create application registration
Run the [Configure.PS1](./AppCreationScripts/AppCreationScripts.md) powershell script in the AppCreationScripts directory or follow these manual steps to create an application registrations, give the application the correct permissions so it can access the Verifiable Credentials Request REST API:

Register an application in Azure Active Directory: 
1. Sign in to the Azure portal using either a work or school account or a personal Microsoft account.
2. Navigate to the Microsoft identity platform for developers App registrations page.
3.	Select New registration
    -  In the Name section, enter a meaningful application name for your issuance and/or verification application
    - In the supported account types section, select Accounts in this organizational directory only ({tenant name})
    - Select Register to create the application
4.	On the app overview page, find the Application (client) ID value and Directory (tenant) ID and record it for later.
5.	From the Certificates & secrets page, in the Client secrets section, choose New client secret:
    - Type a key description (for instance app secret)
    - Select a key duration.
    - When you press the Add button, the key value will be displayed, copy and save the value in a safe location.
    - You’ll need this key later to configure the sample application. This key value will not be displayed again, nor retrievable by any other means, so record it as soon as it is visible from the Azure portal.
6.	In the list of pages for the app, select API permissions
    - Click the Add a permission button
    - Search for APIs in my organization for 3db474b9-6a0c-4840-96ac-1fceb342124f or Verifiable Credential and click the “Verifiable Credential Request Service”
    - Click the “Application Permission” and expand “VerifiableCredential.Create.All”
    - Click Grant admin consent for {tenant name} on top of the API/Permission list and click YES. This allows the application to get the correct permissions
![Admin concent](ReadmeFiles/AdminConcent.PNG)

## Setting up and running the sample
To run the sample, clone the repository, compile & run it. It's callback endpoint must be publically reachable, and for that reason, use a tool like  `ngrok` as a reverse proxy to reach your app.

```Powershell
git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-verifiable-credentials-dotnet.git
cd active-directory-verifiable-credentials-dotnet/1-asp-net-core-api-idtokenhint
```

### Create your credential
To use the sample we need a configured Verifiable Credential in the azure portal.
In the project directory CredentialFiles you will find the `VerifiedCredentialExpertDisplayDefinition.json` file and the `VerifiedCredentialExpertRulesDefinition.json` file. Use these 2 files to create your own VerifiedCredentialExpert credential. 

You can find the instructions on how to create a Verifiable Credential in the azure portal [here](https://aka.ms/didfordevs)

Make sure you copy the value of the credential URL after you created the credential in the portal. 
Copy the URL in the `CredentialManifest` part of the `appsettings.json`. 
You need to manually copy your Microsoft AAD Verifiable Credential service created Decentralized Identifier (did:..) value from this page as well and paste that in the appsettings.json file for `IssuerAuthority`.

### API Payloads
The API is called with special payloads for issuing and verifying verifiable credentials. The sample payload files are modified by the sample code by copying the correct values from the `appsettings.json` file.
If you want to modify the payloads `issuance_request_config.json` and `presentation_request_config.json` files yourself, make sure you comment out the code overwriting the values in the VerifierController.cs and IssuerController.cs files. The code overwrites the Authority, Manifest and trustedIssuers values. The callback URI is modified in code to match your hostname.

For issuance you don't need to change anything, for verifying make sure you follow the instructions from the quickstart and copy paste the correct payload to the `presentation_request_config.json`

Make sure you copy the `ClientId`, `ClientSecret` and `TenantTd` you copied when creating the app registration to the `appsettings.json` as well.

## Running the sample

1. Open a command prompt and run the following command:
```Powershell
dotnet build "AspNetCoreVerifiableCredentials.csproj" -c Debug -o .\bin\Debug\net5
dotnet run
```

2. Using a different command prompt, run ngrok to set up a URL on 5000. You can install ngrok globally by using the [ngrok npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngrok/).
```Powershell
ngrok http 5000
```
3. Open the HTTPS URL generated by ngrok.
![API Overview](ReadmeFiles/ngrok-url-screen.png)
The sample dynamically copies the hostname to be part of the callback URL, this way the VC Request service can reach your sample web application to execute the callback method.

1. Select GET CREDENTIAL
1. In Authenticator, scan the QR code. 
> If this is the first time you are using Verifiable Credentials the Credentials page with the Scan QR button is hidden. You can use the `add account` button. Select `other` and scan the QR code, this will enable the preview of Verifiable Credentials in Authenticator.
6. If you see the 'This app or website may be risky screen', select **Advanced**.
1. On the next **This app or website may be risky** screen, select **Proceed anyways (unsafe)**.
1. On the Add a credential screen, notice that:

  - At the top of the screen, you can see a red **Not verified** message.
  - The credential is based on the information you uploaded as the display file.

9. Select **Add**.

## Verify the verifiable credential by using the sample app
1. Navigate back and click on the Verify Credential link
2. Click Verify Credential button
3. Scan the QR code
4. select the VerifiedCredentialExpert credential and click allow
5. You should see the result presented on the screen.



## About the code
Since the API is a multi-tenant API it needs to receive an access token when it's called. 
The endpoint of the API is https://beta.did.msidentity.com/v1.0/{YOURTENANTID}/verifiablecredentials/request 

To get an access token we are using MSAL as library. MSAL supports the creation and caching of access token which are used when calling Azure Active Directory protected resources like the verifiable credential request API.
Typicall calling the libary looks something like this:
```C#
app = ConfidentialClientApplicationBuilder.Create(AppSettings.ClientId)
    .WithClientSecret(AppSettings.ClientSecret)
    .WithAuthority(new Uri(AppSettings.Authority))
    .Build();
```
And creating an access token:
```C#
result = await app.AcquireTokenForClient(scopes)
                  .ExecuteAsync();
```
> **Important**: At this moment the scope needs to be: **3db474b9-6a0c-4840-96ac-1fceb342124f/.default** This might change in the future

Calling the API looks like this:
```C#
HttpClient client = new HttpClient();
var defaultRequestHeaders = client.DefaultRequestHeaders;
defaultRequestHeaders.Authorization = new AuthenticationHeaderValue("Bearer", result.AccessToken);

HttpResponseMessage res = await client.PostAsync(AppSettings.ApiEndpoint, new StringContent(jsonString, Encoding.UTF8, "application/json"));
response = await res.Content.ReadAsStringAsync();
```

## Troubleshooting

### Did you forget to provide admin consent? This is needed for confidential apps.
If you get an error when calling the API `Insufficient privileges to complete the operation.`, this is because the tenant administrator has not granted permissions
to the application. See step 6 of 'Register the client app' above.

You will typically see, on the output window, something like the following:

```Json
Failed to call the Web Api: Forbidden
Content: {
  "error": {
    "code": "Authorization_RequestDenied",
    "message": "Insufficient privileges to complete the operation.",
    "innerError": {
      "request-id": "<a guid>",
      "date": "<date>"
    }
  }
}
```


## Best practices
When deploying applications which need client credentials and use secrets or certificates the more secure practice is to use certificates. If you are hosting your application on azure make sure you check how to deploy managed identities. This takes away the management and risks of secrets in your application.
You can find more information here:
- [Integrate a daemon app with Key Vault and MSI](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-dotnetcore-daemon-v2/tree/master/3-Using-KeyVault)


## More information

For more information, see MSAL.NET's conceptual documentation:

- [Quickstart: Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app)
- [Quickstart: Configure a client application to access web APIs](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-configure-app-access-web-apis)
- [Acquiring a token for an application with client credential flows](https://aka.ms/msal-net-client-credentials)
